---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: More logs"
date: 2023-6-14
---

This was a tough week and borderline unproductive. I spent the majority
of the first half of the week reading logs, trying to get a good
approach on Hariom's idea. The whole weekend was just me sitting and
thinking about a way to implement the idea in a maintainable and
efficient manner.<br />

The whole idea is based upon the fact that we should use ref-filter
logic in pretty wherever possible and to do that we need to know if the
atom corresponding to the placeholder exists. My approach to implementing
the idea was using a atom-placeholder map which would have all the atoms
(through `enum atom_type` in `ref-filter`) mapped to their corresponding
placeholders. Now, if we want to know if a correspondence exists, we just
need to look up the map and we'll know (see this [branch](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/ref-filter-in-pretty)).<br />

Apart from being a mediocre idea, this has flaws which were not apparent
when I was just thinking about the implementation but not actually
implementing it (writing code). The biggest of them all is that the
`enum atom_type` and the structs that it is a field of and the functions
that make use of it and the structs are all internal to `ref-filter.c`
(that is, they are defined as `static`s and cannot be used by other
files).<br />

```c
struct placeholder_atom_map {
	char *placeholder;
	enum atom_type atom;
} placeholders[] = {
	{ "some placeholder", EQUIVALENT_ATOM }
};

static int in_ref_filter(char *pl)
{
	look up the map;
	if (found)
		return 1;
	return 0;
}

static size_t format_some_placeholder(related args, char *placeholder)
{
	if (in_ref_filter(placeholder)) {
		use ref-filter logic;
		return placeholder_len;
	}
	use pretty logic as usual;
	return placeholder_len;
}
```
<br />

So the above code won't work and it is obvious that to make it work, we
need to change things in ref-filter.c and ref-filter.h and it is exactly
this that makes it a bad approach.<br />

I told Christian and Hariom about this and they suggested that I look at
some of Hariom's previous work on this ([Hariom's commit](https://github.com/harry-hov/git/commit/a07a2ab0d8c39900c098963a0c6f28c5ab359dca)
about `ref-filter` printing commits and [commit](https://github.com/harry-hov/git/commit/47b77e5cf37a1d478d82921a66eddfc611978a03) about making `pretty` use
`ref-filter` logic ).<br />

#### What's happening on the main side of things?
As mentioned in my previous post, the above is essential for testing
purposes only. So on the main side of things, I have been working on a
[transition table](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14NQw_YZpnAH7YX45ileU4m6jdAgKZSIfWJzUwtydEpY/edit?usp=sharing)
between ref-formats and pretty formats. I have also started work on
duplication of other placeholders into atoms and the one I'm
currently working on is    `%(describe[:options])`.<br />

This format gives a human-readable form of an object.<br />

For a blob, this is given as a `<commit-ish>:<path>`, where `<commit-ish>`
describes the first commit in which the blob occurs in a reverse
revision-walk from HEAD.<br />

For a commit, it goes to the most recent tag, suffixes it with the number
of commits on top of it and the abreviated object name of the most recent
commit.<br />

For a tag, it just plainly shows the most recent tag. By default, it only
shows annotated tags but we can also describe lightweight tags using `--tags`.<br />

'til next time,<br />
Kousik
