---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Implementing the .mailmap options"
date: 2023-7-26
---

I've started actually implementing the `mailmap` options into `ref-filter`.
Christian, Hariom and I have decided that we will go with options spelled
out as, for example, <br />

``` sh
git for-each-ref --format="%(authoremail:mailmap,trim)" refs/
```

so that we use `mailmap` by specifying "`mailmap`" in the options of the
atom. Currently the goal is to only apply `mailmap` to the atoms
`authorname, authoremail` and `committername, committeremail` and leave
out the trailers (for now). <br />

I started out with making `--format="%(authoremail:mailmap)"` and its
friends work. The approach taken is as follows:

- The function `copy_email()` grabs the email values of a given commit
or tag buffer and modifies them according to the options given to the
atom.

- To add `mailmap` support, that is, to grab these values from `.mailmap`
instead, we need to modify this buffer so that the buffer shows the
`mailmap` equivalents.

- We do this by checking if we have a `mailmap` arg in
`person_email_atom_parser()` and if we have one, we modify the given
buffer by calling `apply_mailmap_to_header()` on it.

- This buffer is then modified according to the options given, that is
`nothing`, `trim` or `localpart`.

A similar approach can also be taken to implement `mailmap` for the name
of an author or committer (in which case `copy_name()` has to be changed).
<br />

I haven't pushed the changes I made to implement `mailmap` to email
because there are some minor things that need to be fixed.

#### `$ git status describe-atom`

According to the recent "What's cooking" email, the describe atom patches
are ready to be merged into next. A lot of cool discussions happened
during the reviews. <br />

Junio suggested the possiblity of having unit tests written for the
functions `match_atom_arg_value()` and `match_atom_bool_arg()`.
The people at Google have been working on adding a unit test suite to
Git, written in C. Unit tests help in testing individual functions, which
is obviously a great advantage. More info about the discussion around
the adding unit tests to Git are these [patches](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20230427175007.902278-1-calvinwan@google.com/).
<br />

Junio said that these functions would be kind of an ideal candidate for
something to run unit tests on as these functions when called can lead
to so many condidtions and we don't really get to fully to use them
in order to test them. Also with unit tests, we have the added advantage
of documentation as unit tests give a clear understanding of what a
particular function needs to do. <br />

Another thing that was discussed was to generalize the way we parse
multiple options as we are beginning to see them more often in the
code. Junio suggested that we do something similar to `parse_config_key()`
in `config.c` in which case , we use this to parse config options like

``` sh
section.(subsection.)?key
```

I learnt quite a bit from these reviews and the discussions around them. <br />

The patches that are to be merged in next are in [v4](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20230723162717.68123-1-five231003@gmail.com/).

I've also made a bit of a progress on using `ref-filter` in `pretty`
where I worked on changing `convert_format()`, which converts `pretty`
placeholders to `ref-filter` atoms, to return the `ref format` instead
of the the placeholder length, in hope that this can then be use to pass
onto a `ref-filter` function to grab the necessary values instead of
`pretty` doing all the work. Although pretty printing must be done
by `pretty`. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
