---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: The complete describe atom"
date: 2023-7-5
---

This week has almost only been cleaning up the `describe` atom code and
making it ready to be a proper patch series that can be sent out to the
mailing list. So no new work has been put into either `.mailmap` or
Hariom's idea, which is kind of sad because I have been postponing it
for a while now, especially Hariom's idea but things should settle in
this week. <br />

#### Interesting stuff 
A couple of interesting things popped up while I was cleaning up the
"describe" atom code. The first one being that a totally unrelated test
was failing on linux-sha256 (CI). The reason this test was failing,
particularly on linux-sha256 was because of the change in the raw:size
of certain objects due to new commits and tags that were added as part
of the `describe` tests. This would re-arrange the refs when sorting and
hence the test would fail. <br />

So, I wrote another [commit](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commit/43cd3eef3cd55b8c78cc619050ae7c98430b7f05) to fix this. This commit takes the approach of
making all the `describe` related tests run on `describe-repo` (a repo
exclusively for `describe` tests to run), instead of the usual main repo
of `t6300-for-each-ref.sh`. <br />

I originally thought to squash this commit onto the duplication commit,
but Christian suggested that it deserves an explanation and I agree with
him. <br />

I sent these patches to the mailing list (this fix commit on top of the
duplication commit). They can be read on this [thread](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20230705175942.21090-1-five231003@gmail.com/). <br />

Another thing I came across was the output of the following command when
run in the trash directory of `t6300` right after the "Verify sorts with
raw:size" test.
<br />

``` sh
$ git for-each-ref --format="%(refname) %(raw:size)" --sort=raw:size refs/heads/main refs/myblobs/ refs/mytrees/first
```
<br />

which gives

``` sh
refs/myblobs/blob8 0
refs/myblobs/first 17
refs/myblobs/blob7 2
refs/myblobs/blob4 3
refs/heads/main 446
refs/myblobs/blob1 5
refs/myblobs/blob2 5
refs/myblobs/blob3 6
refs/myblobs/blob5 6
refs/myblobs/blob6 6
refs/mytrees/first 64
```
<br />

which is strange because the sorting seems to happens while only taking
into account the first digit of raw:size. I don't know if this is expected
and if it was not, then I would need to dig a little more deeper for this.
<br />

According to the "What's cooking" email sent on June 30, the change in
`%(describe:abbrev=...)` test in `t4205-log-pretty-formats.sh` is on its
way to master. <br />

Christian sent out a reply to "What's cooking" saying that the `signature`
atom patches where ready to be merged (they had been on "Needs review" for
a while now) since they had seen so many changes and the current version
was looking good. <br />

I have also made sure to change the `%(describe:abbrev=...)` test in the
duplication of `describe` too. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
