---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Another possible approach at mailmap options"
date: 2023-8-9
---

This week was a bit unproductive as I was sick for a few days and couldn't
really get any work done in that time. I was able to add the docs and the tests
to the changed implementation from Christian's comments last week though. So now
the implementation looks a bit like this <br />

``` c
enum {
	EO_RAW = 1<<0,
	EO_TRIM = 1<<1,
	EO_LOCALPART = 1<<2,
	EO_MAILMAP = 1<<3,
} option;
```

We parse the options of the given relevant format with
`email_atom_option_parser()` and loop through it in `person_email_atom_parser()`
to store them in `struct used_atom` (the looping is done atmost two times, with
the only option we can comibine `trim` or `localpart` is with `mailmap`). <br />

We then perform bit operations to get the asked values which are stored in
`struct used_atom`. This part is done in `copy_email()` which is then called by
`grab_person()` to get the values according to the option parsing. <br />

#### Another approach

In the above way of implementing things, we transform the buffer passed to get
the email value, according to the options, to conform with .mailmap file or the
config variable set. However, we do this transforming step precisely thrice.
Once in `copy_line()`, whenever we pass something like `%(author)` to
`--format=<format>`. In `copy_name()`, for `%(authorname:mailmap)` and related
formats. In `copy_email()`, for `%(authoremail:mailmap)` and related formats and
their respective options. <br />

We can avoid doing this by directly changing the buffer we pass to
`find_wholine()` by doing something like

``` c
if (mailmap.use)
	change_to_mailmap_value(buf);
```

in `grab_person()`. <br />

We could also change this in `find_wholine()` itself. This is faster because we
only grab a buffer till the wholines (that is author, committer and tagger
information) and then apply mailmap to the particular headers. <br />

Parsing the options remains the same, we only change the above mentioned code so
that we don't have to individually call `change_to_mailmap_value()` in
value-grabbing functions. This is still in its testing phase and is just an idea
and I don't know if it'll work (I did test it maunally though and it seems to
have some bugs, usually of memory allocation). I still have to discuss this with
Christian and Hariom. I thought I'll do that with the code all written. <br />

This is all the work that I did past week and nothing else. I have pushed none
of it (not even the work with Christian's comments) because there seems to be a
bug with memory allocation in `copy_email()`. I guess this is because some
conditions are not being tests and the variables start accessing or duplicating
bogus memory. I'll have to figure it out. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
