---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Getting familiar with .mailmap"
date: 2023-6-28
---

As already mentioned in my last week's post, I've been working on the
`describe` atom. This week, I worked on improving it and fixing parts
of the tests based on the comments that Christian made on the first
version. The changes can be read on the branch ["describe2"](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/describe2). <br />

The tests still don't seem to pass. After spending considerable
amount of time redoing them and trying to understand what was actually
going on, I asked Christian. He took a look at my branch and gave a
really nice explanation as to what was really going on and how we can
possibly fix it. So I think we can fix it now. <br /> 

I also received comments on "t4205-describe-fix" and changed it (just
some minor improvements on the way we do things). The changes can be
read on the branch ["t4205-describe-fix3"](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/t4205-describe-fix3). I have also sent this patch
to the [mailing list](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20230628181753.10384-1-five231003@gmail.com/).
<br />

#### The `.mailmap` options

A `.mailmap` file is a file which has the author and their respective
email information. Git basically looks for this file in the top-level
of the repo by default or if the config variables for the path are set,
then it uses that file. <br />

This file is very useful when the repo consists of various authors and
committers and if any of them have more than one way in which their name
is set or if they have multiple emails. <br />

The `.mailmap` options are used in `pretty` when displaying author names,
author emails, committer names, commiter emails and for reflog identity
name and email. Since `ref-filter` doesn't yet have the reflog options,
the inital attempt would be so that `ref-filter` can use `.mailmap` for
author names and emails and committer names and emails. <br />

To make use of these options in through `ref-filter`, Christian suggested
to read through the patches that Siddharth Asthana sent regarding the
integration of `.mailmap` options in `git cat-file`. His work on it can be
read [here](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20220630142444.651948-1-siddharthasthana31@gmail.com/) and [here](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20220916205946.178925-1-siddharthasthana31@gmail.com/).
<br />

I've spent this week reading through his work on this and thinking about
the possible approach that can be taken.
<br />

Hariom's idea is still cooking in my local branch, nothing interesting to
show yet but this will not be the case next week.
<br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
