---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: How ref-filter does things"
date: 2023-8-16
---

The past week, I have been rerolling the mailmap commit in my fork according to
comments it recieved. I think it has taken more form now and we can send it to
the mailing list soon. Although I guess the patch cycle will go well after
Git-2.42.0 (which is in less than a [week](http://tinyurl.com/gitcal) from now, so). The lastest of the
rerolls in the fork is "[mailmap4](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/mailmap4)". <br />

The majority of the work that I did this week was on Hariom's idea.

#### Setting the stage

So, all the way back in the "Week 2" post, I wrote about an idea that Hariom
came up with regarding a bridge between the ref-filter formats and the pretty
formats, where we essentially do something like

``` c
if (ref-filter format exists)
	grab values from ref-filter
else
	do it the pretty way
```

this helps in testing, say `log` output, which is generated from the logic of
`ref-filter`. <br />

#### My approach (kind of)

The way `ref-filter` does things out of any filtering of refs is that, it first
gathers the format in

``` sh
git for-each-ref --format=<format> refspec
```

and verifies that format, which parses the options if we have a legitimate
format and then we grab the values according our format.

`pretty` also works in a similar way but is more straight-forward, there are
calls to the core `format_commit_one()` which strips off the placeholder string
till all the placeholders are parsed. The values themselves are also grabbed in
`format_commit_one()`. <br />

Hariom did work on `pretty-lib.{c, h}`, which prints out the `log` based on the
values grabbed from `ref-filter`. One of the functions used in the
implementation is `convert_format()`, which converts the `pretty` formats to
their equivalent `ref-filter` formats. <br />

The implementation that I'm working on now makes use of this `convert_format()`
function, but instead of returning the length of the placeholder, it returns the
format string as known to ref-filter. We run `verify_ref_format()` on such a
string and grab the values from ref-filter. <br />

To make this work, we would need to find a way in `ref-filter` where we could
grab values for a given format without a ref but with the commit id, which I'm
currently working on. <br />

Once this is done, we run a check whether the whole `pretty` format string is
transformable into `ref-filter` format string. If not, we fall back to doing
things pretty way and finally print the values for example a `log` output. We
can do this two ways

- Reject `ref-filter` logic if at least one `pretty` format doesn't have an
  equivalent in `ref-filter` for the given format string.
- Reject `ref-filter` logic for only those `pretty` placeholders in the format
  string that don't have an equivalent in `ref-filter` and grab values
  accordingly, that is, for those that have an equivalent in `ref-filter` grab
  values through `ref-filter` logic and for those who don't, fallback to `pretty`
  way of doing things.

The first way is relatively easier but the second way can be followed given how
`convert_format()` is written. <br />

I haven't discussed this with Christian and Hariom yet, wanted to do it once the
I pushed the commits. Throughout the week, we discussed the mailmap support to
`ref-filter`. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
