---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: The not-so-complete describe atom"
date: 2023-7-12
---

Okay. So, as I've written last time, I sent the patches to the mailing
list, which I thought were perfect. Turns out they weren't. There
are many things wrong with how we implement the `describe` atom which
Junio pointed out in his [reply](https://lore.kernel.org/git/xmqqbkgpdljy.fsf@gitster.g/). <br />

First of which is, when doing something like

``` sh
git for-each-ref --format="%(describe:tags=yes)" refs/tags/
```

gives an error because according to the code, we just parse for integer
values. `config.h` has a function `git_parse_maybe_bool()` which can be
used to parse values such as "yes, no, true, false", which are perfectly
valid but are not handled by the current code. <br />

Second, we can't parse multiple options

``` sh
git for-each-ref --format="%(describe:tags=yes,abbrev=14)" refs/tags/
```

will give an error saying that the boolean arg for `tags` is not proper
or something similar for anything which is used in place of `tags`. We
can overcome this by properly parsing the options, probably something
similar to `pretty`. <br />

Third is the clarity of the data structure we use as the basis of the
describe atom

``` c
struct {
	enum { D_BARE, D_TAGS, D_ABBREV, D_MATCH, D_EXCLUDE } option;
	unsigned int tagbool;
	unsigned int length;
	char *pattern;
} describe;
```

One can't really tell where we are using `tagbool` (a very bad variable
name), `length` and `pattern` exactly w.r.t. its corresponding option.
Also, for obvious reasons, this struct doesn't really work for multiple
options we are discussed above. <br />

Apart from these, Junio also suggested that we document this atom in a
different way which would be more clear and I agree. <br />

#### A possible solution

So, coming to fixing this mess, I have some work locally which is similar
to the approach taken in `pretty` (which I haven't pushed to my fork yet
since for some reason it's sending SIGSEGV, `gdb` here I come). We introduce
two new functions `match_atom_arg_value()` and `match_atom_bool_arg()`,
which are similar to the functions `match_placeholder_arg_value()` and
`match_placeholder_bool_arg()` in `pretty`. <br />

These functions are used for parsing multiple option arguments given to
`--pretty=`, for example in the case of `trailers`, where `trailers` can
take multiple sub-options like `key` and `seperator` at a time. That is

``` sh
git log --pretty="%(trailers:key=Helped-By,separator=%x2C )"
```

where we get all the trailers with "Helped-By", separated by a comma. <br />

The implementation of `describe` in `pretty` also makes use of these functions
to parse multiple options so I think making use of them `ref-filter` would
be great in the sense that future atoms may also of make use of these. <br />

I haven't really discussed this Christian and Hariom yet, regarding the
apporach. I'll do it once I have pushed things. <br />

#### What's happening with the other stuff?

I have started working on Hariom's idea again while waiting for the
review on the `describe` atom and I am mainly focusing on the
`convert_format()` function which plays the central role in the whole
thing. <br />

The function basically converts any `pretty` format into `ref-filter`
format, if there is a map. We can use this directly in `pretty` and
tweak the other functions in `pretty` to do things accordingly. <br />

I haven't pushed this to my fork yet as the code doesn't really work
as I intended it to, so I need to make some changes. <br />

Coming to `.mailmap` options, I haven't worked on them this week but
I should be able to it once v2 of `describe` atom goes out. <br />

Apart from these, according to the latest "What's Cooking" email (Jul 10),
the patch regarding the `describe:abbrev=<number>` test has been merged to
master and the patches regarding `signature` atom made it into next and
are now on their way to master which is cool. <br />

Hoping that v2 of `describe` atom is much better. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
