---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: The .mailmap options"
date: 2023-7-19
---

This week I started the work on adding `.mailmap` options to `ref-filter`.
I had been reading the [patches](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20220718195102.66321-1-siddharthasthana31@gmail.com/) that Siddharth Asthana sent in regards
to adding `.mailmap` options to `cat-file`. <br />

These patches are particularly interesting because of refactoring they do
before the actual addition of `.mailmap` to `cat-file`. The refactoring
is done so that we can grab the headers of commits (or tags)
effectively and we also make the function that does it public so that
it can be used elsewhere. The latter change is especially important, because
that means that we can use this function in `ref-filter` too (although to grab
only the headers and use `.mailmap` for them). <br />

The function that does the above is `apply_mailmap_to_header()` and this can
be called in a seperate function, local to `ref-filter`, which can be used to
replace the headers with their appropriate `.mailmap` entries. <br />

It would also be natural to expect that we are able to use `.mailmap`
for `trailers` in a commit or a tag as well, since these are also a part
of the commit or tag where we find names and emails. <br />

Actually, in the same thread that the above patches were sent to,
Christian brings up a nice use case where this might matter and suggests
a possible [starting point](https://lore.kernel.org/git/CAP8UFD3ohjS0p02SKwqKWBK1=sVuC9+iDT4at2R9ktCUXme9rA@mail.gmail.com/). <br />

Coming to the design, I'm not really sure what to do here. There are two
ways in which we can do things: <br />

- Follow `cat-file` and introduce a `--[no-]use-mailmap` to `for-each-ref`
possibly.

- Follow `pretty` and add new options to say atom like `%(authorname)`. So
something like `%(authorname:mailmap)`. <br />

The second way is more verbose and I kind of prefer the first one
since we could do something like <br />

``` sh
git for-each-ref --use-mailmap --format="%(authorname) %(authoremail)" refs/
```

#### The work on `describe` atom in `ref-filter`
The describe atom patches are currently in v3. I re-rolled with this
version which largely simplified things in how `describe` atom was
implemented in `ref-fitler`. For parsing the describe options, we just
do <br />

``` c
const char **describe_args;
```

now. <br />

I was worried about us `err`ing in the right places because the
implementation before this had not really taken care of it and it was
kind of hard to `err` with that implementation. <br />

Christian suggested that we split out the option parsing code from
`describe_atom_parser()` so that we can `err` correctly. This was really
good and this makes things easier to `err` whenever something goes wrong. <br />

Hariom suggested that, instead of adding new functions to `ref-filter`,
we should rather refactor the functions in `pretty` and make them public
so that we are able to use them here without re-implementing them. <br />

#### What else is cooking?
I didn't take out any time to work on `convert_format()` (related to
Hariom's idea) this week, which is embarrasing at this point. Was a bit
busy with college work, but I did make some progress on it though. Trying
to figure out where it will fit into `pretty_print_commit()`. <br />

I experimented a bit with it by trying to call it in `format_commit_one()`,
but that was a total failure. <br />

I also attended Review Club this week which discussed the addition of
`%(decorate:<options>)` placeholder in `pretty`. Except for the socializing
part, I was pretty much silent and lurked in the background. I had a great
time and it was pretty fun. Thanks Glen, Jonathan, Calvin and Jacob. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
