---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Code can be cleaner"
date: 2023-8-2
---

The mailmap options have finally taken form and I have pushed the initial
version to my fork with the branch name "[mailmap0](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/mailmap0)". The approach used is as
described in my previous post with some additional changes so that we now can
also grab mailmap values for the name atoms (that is, `%(authorname)`,
`%(committername)` and `%(taggername)`). <br />

The function that does this grabbing is `change_to_mailmap_value()`, which reads
the mailmap and if an entry exists, grabs it and changes our buffer accordingly,
giving us the mailmap version of the email or name or both. <br />

The additional changes that I mention above are to the function
`find_wholine()`. What this function does is that it finds the `author`,
`committer` and `tagger` lines (if they exist) and strips off the `who`
part of the first such occurrence and returns the `refs/foo/bar` buffer.
<br />

The changes were made so that we now return the whole buffer, because we need
the `who` part of this buffer for mailmap purposes (code in mailmap wants this
info). The subsequent code was also changed so that we do actually skip the `who`
part where ever needed.

Christian took a look at the commits and left a few comments which were really
helpful and which I agree should definitely go into the changed version of these
commits. Those changes are
- Instead of always returning the whole buffer from `find_wholine()`, we should
  rather add a flag so that we can control the skipping of the `who` part.
- When handling the options of the email, we normally use an enum which has all
  the possible options with 0 to final_option - 1 indexing. Instead of this, we
  should rather use bit fields, which has a number of advantages and makes the
  code a lot cleaner and easy to err wherever we want (more info at this
  [comment](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commit/ee38de44399fb90140f46c88d4ccef206400b498#r123438198)).
- The current code only handles options in a specific order and errs if they
  are not in that order. For example,

  ``` sh
  git for-each-ref --format="%(authoremail:mailmap,trim)" refs/heads/
  ```

  is fine, but

  ``` sh
  git for-each-ref --format="%(authoremail:trim,mailmap)" refs/heads/
  ```

  errs. So the implementation needs to change a bit so that this is allowed
  too. Anyone using this option obviously expects this also to work.

There were also some other minor comments about refactoring things for more
cleanness. <br />

#### Apart from the mailmap options

For the last many posts, I have been saying that I am making progress on
Hariom's idea but I haven't pushed anything because most of it gets stashed
and then dropped. This especially happened in the last week because I shifted my
focus a bit from mailmap and worked on this.

Every time I use `gdb` for some seg fault or some other error where the output
for the code that I wrote is not what I expected, I learn something new about
the command and how it calls the different functions and what serves as a pipe
to what. This kind of changes things in the code that I already wrote and I've
slowly began to realize that the code I wrote was wrong for many reasons and
the reason mostly being that one should also keep in mind how the command runs
and jumps from function to function TOP to BOTTOM and not BOTTOM to TOP. BOTTOM
to TOP was the only view I had till now and this lead to writing code that would
unnecessarily call private functions and when you compile such a thing, you
obviously get an error and you try to somehow make the functions public but what
you should be thinking about is how you should make use of the public functions
so that they automatically handle the private functions themselves and give you
what you need. <br />

This seems kind of obvious now but I somehow didn't realize it all this
while. <br />

'til next time, <br />
Kousik
