---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: The describe atom and friends"
date: 2023-6-21
---

For the past week (actually, even from a little before that), I've been
working on duplicating the implementation of `%(describe)` and its friends
from `pretty` to `ref-filter`. I haven't sent them to the mailing list
yet because they need to be cleaned up before that. So it's still in
a discussion phase between Christian, Hariom and me. <br />

I faced a few challenges initially after the first (and rough)
implementation of `describe`. One of them was the code that dealt with
taking a boolean value for `describe:tags=<bool>`. I initially wrote it
this way <br />

``` c
if (strtoul_ui(arg, 10, tagbool) &&
    (tagbool != 0 || tagbool != 1)
	return error;
```

<br />

where `strtoul_ui()` takes a string `arg` as input, given the base to
which we want to convert it to (here `10`), will convert the string
number to unsinged int number and put it in `tagbool`. For example, `"14"`
will give `14`. It returns `0` on success and `-1` otherwise. This function
is kind of a wrapper around the `strtoul()` function which does not have
the property of returning errors and it takes negative inputs. <br /> 

The above code seems to fail tests on CI as it doesn't work as it is
intended to. <br />

I pushed this work onto my fork (it can be read on branch ["describe"](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/describe))
and we had a call that day so I thought we could discuss a bit about it
while also discussing about the transition table that I had made the
week before. <br />

In the call, I told Hariom that I was not really happy with the code
dealing with `describe:tags=<bool>` and that it was failing the tests. He
suggested to use gdb (GNU Debugger) to see what was going wrong. <br />

Now, I have a bit of a history with `gdb`. I tried to learn to use it a long
time ago and it hadn't really made any sense to me at that time and I
gave up, eventually. So I was kind of hestiant of using it but thought
why not give it another try. <br />

The power of this tool is huge. The time you take to analyze the code
drastically reduces and it just makes making changes to the code so easy.
It can also be used to read code, in the sense that we are always able
to see what are the functions being called and in what files
they are in. <br />

I especially found the post ["Using GDB for Debugging in Git"](https://github.com/edith007/siddharthasthana.dev/blob/main/source/_posts/Using%20GDB%20for%20Debugging%20in%20Git.md) by Siddharth
Asthana, to be super helpful. <br />

Coming back to the call, Christian, Hariom and I discussed about the
possible changes to the transition table and also discussed a bit about
supporting `.mailmap` options in `ref-filter`.
<br />

Apart from this, I also wrote a small patch to fix a test in
`t4205-log-pretty-formats.sh` as a test regarding the `describe:abbrev=...`
option was not really doing what it should (it can be read on the branch
["t4205-describe-fix"](https://github.com/five-sh/git/commits/t4205-describe-fix)).
<br />

#### Work on using `ref-filter` in `pretty`

Unfortunately, I haven't been able to put that much work onto this
yet after my previous attempt. I really liked the idea of how Hariom
used a function instead to map between the different atoms and the
corresponding placeholders. So I think I'll be doing something on
similar lines too instead of the stupid approach I took last time.
Maybe refactor some code in it and tweak it to work directly with
`pretty`? I don't know.
<br />


'til next time, <br />
Kousik 
